Marlon D                                                                              2018-10-09

1.5 Exericses 

1. The game companies discussed in chapter 1 that have ceased their video game operations are the following Atari,
Mattel, Coleco and Sega. Atari was the leading video game company of its time in 1972 and even found major sucess in
their time, however their downfall began with their console the Atari 5200 in 1982. The console itself had many issues 
such as the under quality of the joysticks and wasn't setup to have the players correct center meaning the payer would have to find
it themselves. In the end the video game crash of 1983 was what ended this company as it lost massive sales hey did find
minor success with their atari 7800 but was shutdown in 1992. Mattel the creators of the intellivision 1 & 2, its first 
console which was released in 1979 was set to compete with the atair 2600 and was actually making profit however their
second console which was made much better than the first generation failed before they got a chance as the console 
was released during the video game crash. The shriking market would end up being the end of Mattel's console intellivision and
their video game operations. Coleco is the next gamining company to have shutdown their video game development, coming out with the Colecovision
in 1982 was said to be a very high qualtiy console for its time and was said to be more sucessful than the atair 5200.
Despite their sucess Coleco suffered the same fate as many other video game companies of its time the video game crash 
although they managed to stay open for a couple of years they shut down the company by 1985. The final game company is Sega, at its height it was 
thought to be the most serious competetor for nintendos NES system however its last console the dreamcast despite its manyground breaking features 
at the time shipped with many issues such as video games just wouldnt work low supply of VMU lead to a loss of sales and sega ending 
their console development bussiness, they still however publish video games to this day. 


2. The connection between atari and the commodore computer company is while the atari was at its end during the video game 
crash of 1983 commodore took the opppourtiny with the commodore 64 and became the alternative to atari.

3.The lyrics of jump around refer to the gaming company Sega and how they withdrew from the video game console development 
business due to pressure of sales not being as good as the consoles releasing at its time (NES, Playstation) and instead of 
trying to compete they back out altogther.

4. First Person shooters: Call of duty MW2, Haft-life 2, Star wars battlefront.
   Third Person shooters: Gears of war 2, Halo 3.
   RPG: Fable 2, Final fantasy VII, Mass effect 2, The legend of zelda.
   Traditional: Defender, Ms. Pac-man, Pac-man, Space invaders.
   Open World: GTA 4, minecraft.
   Fighting: Punch-out, street fighter 2, teenage mutant ninja tutles, tekken: dark resurrection.
   Puzzle: Myst, 
   Platformer: sonic the hedgehog 2, super mario bros.
   Racing: Mario Kart wii
   RTS: Starcraft
   Simulation: the sims 2, nintendo dogs, 
   action-adventure: Uncharted 3: Drakes Deception
   Puzzle platformer: Little big planet 
